What problem or problems do you see with everybody creating their own engines in JavaScript just like
we did right.
Can we just create our own engine and all of a sudden boom there it is.
We have our JavaScript engine Well yes you can definitely do that.
But remember our list over here how it was called at must script engines and not javascript engines.
That's because if everybody can just create a JavaScript engine it will just be total chaos which is
why Atma script was created.
It tells people hey here's the standard and how you should do things in JavaScript and how it should
work and Atma script is the governing body of javascript that essentially decides how the language should
be standardized so it tells engine creators.
This is how javascript should work.
But internally how you build the engine is up to you as long as it conforms to the standards and if
we go back to our example over here this engine inside of this box as long as it conforms to Atmos script
standards I can do whatever I want as an engine creator so companies and organizations are battling
to have the fastest engine.
So people use their tool.
For example Google is really interested in having the fastest engine so that more people use their chrome
browsers so that they use their search engine so that they can sell more ads and make more revenue but
keep this in mind that this can be implemented any way we want and it constantly changes to find the
fastest way possible to have javascript work in our browsers or even outside of our browsers and we're
gonna be talking about the V8 engine here because it is the most popular and you might see some different
variations of this.
But what we're going to talk about here applies to most javascript engines and although things may change
over time as long as you understand the principles and why it's built the way it is we're going to be
able to understand how to write optimized code.
But before we get into that let's talk about what these things are.
We have the interpreter and the compiler.
I'll see you in the next video by.